---
layout: post
title: What is Linux Ubuntu?
---

You may be familiar with Microsoft Window’s and Apple’s MacOSX. Both of these are
examples of operating systems.
Merriam-Webster defines operating system as the main program in a computer that
controls the way the computer works and makes it possible for other programs to function.
Essentially, the operating system is the program that lets you interact with a computer, and
the computer to understand what you want to do. It goes deeper than that, but I want to
keep this topical.
Linux is an open-source operating system. Being open-source is a major difference
between Linux and the other popular operating systems. Open-source means that the
software is provided with the original source code and is made freely available to be
redistributed and modified. This is what makes Linux unique. It has a strong community
out there modifying the code, participating in forums, and fixing bugs much quicker than
the alternatives.
If you are looking to add a new skill to your portfolio, learning how to use Linux, can be
very useful. According to ZDNet in 2014, 87% of enterprise businesses added at least one
Linux server and 82% planned on adding more in 2015. Linux and its distributions are
very popular for database, web, and other types of servers.
A distro or distribution is a version of Linux that uses the Linux kernel as its foundation.
There are hundreds of Linux distros, with most all being free. Ubuntu is a distro of Linux,
which is distributed by a company called Canonical. They provide the operating system
for free, but charge for commercial support of the product. Nearly a quarter of servers
running Linux, are using Ubuntu. This makes it a great choice for your first Linux
experience.
